this week on Marketplace
snake-in-the-grass the CD sales tricks
of Canada's largest lawn care company I
just had to get someone to say yes to
anything as long as they said yes I
think it really did for good that they
agreed for a signed contract with the
company and the people fighting back I
will not stop until I get resolution
someone came to my property trespassing
broke my fence what kind of tactics are
those and later on marketplace see who
gets busted we call Canada's Airlines to
find out if there's a time limit on
their travel credits if I change my
travel plans can I get a credit I felt
completely 100% robbed it was just
ridiculous any of my students came up
with that policy they'd find the door in
one hell of a hurry
we're in Ottawa doing some surveillance
keeping an eye on the comings and goings
of a nationally known business we're
heading to their turf
with a hidden camera trying to find out
why this company is making mulch out of
so many of its customers
but first a trio of Canadians not
letting the grass grow underneath their
feet if I need to be the one to step
forward and fight this I'll do that
they're taking on this company
by all means do what you have to do but
I'm not paying and that's the end of it
standing up for their rights call the
police and I said they came on my lawn
and they're charging me here's who
they're up against weed meth we kill
weeds 130 franchises from coast to coast
sixty-five million dollars in annual
sales the grass is always greener on the
other side after you thank you you fight
this I did actually after her dealings
with weed man Pamela Watterson would
never say her grass was greener two
summers ago she pays Weed Man
two hundred and fifty dollars take care
of her lawn in Pickering Ontario calling
it the worst lawn care she's ever had
she cancels the service but the
following spring she comes home one day
to find a Weed Man
sign on her lawn and an invoice in her
mailbox she calls the company and is
told no no you used us last year we're a
continuous service company therefore you
are using us again this year Pamela
refuses to pay someone will call her
back they say someone does but just to
sell her more services he told me that
they had a special golf green package
and it was about nine hundred and
seventy-five dollars but I would get it
for the special discounted rate of 240
and I said no a couple of weeks after
that she goes away for the weekend I
came home the following Monday to find
that Weidman had been again and this
time they had put fertilizer on my lawn
and left another invoice in my mailbox I
was incensed but weed man keeps coming
back like well weeds at the end of May
another service call this time for weed
killer and another invoice unbelievable
jaw-dropping shocking yeah yet again
three visits three bills no satisfaction
and when Pamela complains to the Better
Business Bureau she finds out she's not
alone turns out weed man generates
hundreds of complaints from across the
country one of the franchises with the
most complaints is in Ottawa
that's where we find Brian boot he
remembers the day he first got a call
from weed man I said my wife should be
involved in these decisions would you be
kind enough to make an appointment or
call us on Monday and we'll arrange
something so we can all get together and
we can discuss your service but a few
days later he sees a Weed Man technician
pushing a sign into his lawn and that's
after they've already applied fertilizer
I immediately went outside and
confronted him and said I didn't order
this
but weed man wants their money I felt
harassed I felt my wife was being
harassed because they would call on a
regular basis so Brian filed a complaint
with the BBB - if only senesce chat
Lonnie's drumming could charm weed man
one of their Georgia door salespeople
offers his family a free quote on
servicing their lawn in Thornhill
Ontario no thanks he says they already
have a gardener but guess what a couple
of weeks later there's an invoice on the
door weed man has just fertilized their
lawn I was really upset and I like when
my dog was outside so I clearly went
grab him and and the gate was open the
family refuses to pay weed man argues
they have to saying we have you on our
list you said yes to the free quote but
wait about a month after that Senesh
catches a weeb an employee spraying weed
killer I just ran out right away and
said I mean you need to you need to
leave this is not right I did not ask
for this my family did I wear this can
you show me a signature he said no and I
said you need to simply leave because
this is this is ridiculous
think it's over not a chance because and
you won't believe this
wee man sends his father's account to a
collection agency welcome and thank you
for calling creditor of Canada collect
Senesh steps in to help his dad
we never ordered the service over the
bounds of fanfics 927 it has affected
your credit um so my father's credit
rating there's absolutely nothing I can
really do about it I guess no nothing
that you know we're capable of doing
I can't eliminate a debt without the
authorization of Weidman
but Senesh isn't backing down if we
don't take a stand and this is just
going to keep continuing back in Ottawa
Brian boots also refusing to pay Weed
Man the $56 they say he owes and the
collection people threaten me and that's
when I cut my heels up and said you do
anything and he'll hear from my
attorneys I can imagine people at home
might hear the story and say $56 you
know just let it go just pay it why not
why not because it's wrong and $56 from
every family that gives in there's a
tidy profit for an organization who
shouldn't be in business in my opinion
at all they're rude they're crude they
do not listen to anything you say
so Pamela's decided to stand up and
fight - they picked the wrong girl I'm
just I'm not happy about this and I will
not stop until I get resolution she
files another complaint this time with
the provinces Ministry of Consumer
Services it joins hundreds of others
that lead the ministry to take action
Colin Colin Mackenzie is with the
Investigations Unit what did the
investigator find about what we man was
doing the investigator found that
services were provided but the consumer
didn't ask for those services it's an
offense against the consumer protection
act to conduct business like that so
ostensibly they were breaking the
provincial law correct and here's the
important part the contracts have to be
in writing there has to be full
disclosure as to what is going to be
provided in that service so nothing in
writing then it's not binding we want
answers
so we wire up our producer with a hidden
camera we're going with Brian boot in to
Ottawa's we'd mat office will they agree
to call off the collection agency I'll
be listening inside the van
Brian meets with senior manager Amanda
Blythe who handled his complaint to the
BBB there was a recording of the order
like a the order was recorded I listened
to it for kind of quality control
purposes my job really when there's a
dispute is to verify the company's done
the right thing and I did verify that
myself like I listened to the recording
there's nothing in the conversation that
saying my wife would like to be involved
would you please contact us early next
week and we'll get together Thank You
radius and IRS TV nothing there - yeah
I'm not gonna lie it's possible that was
sad maybe at the beginning or the middle
of the conversation I listened to the
start from start to finish but Nestle by
the salespeople their jobs to overcome
these objections we check that out with
Justin clicker Minh a former salesperson
from that office tough to sell people
that don't want the product what did the
supervisors tell you in terms of how to
sell to clients there was writ bottles
for everything
if someone says $220 I don't have the
money there's you know you can break it
up into six payments what do you mean
you don't have $200 try and make the
potential customer look cheap because
they don't want to pay for it what was
the thing you needed - from the company
standpoint to get a commitment from a
potential customer I just had to get
someone to say yes to anything as long
as they said yes after I told them you
know the two options I would be like do
you want to pay monthly or do you want
to pay the whole thing at once and save
a bit of money like I try to do that
with them as long as at some point they
said yes after I talked about the amount
of money that was good that was a sale
Brian boot says he never agreed to a
sale why I'm confident I have proof and
signatures of people ordering the
services and then later on I think they
really do forget that they've agreed for
a signed contract with the company so
can she show Brian his contract
there's no signed contract I definitely
I didn't even look for one I just I
listen to a verbal recording of a verbal
contract and that counts you know it was
signed
did they ever send Brian the details of
that contract was a letter confirming
all of the services that was called
confirmation letter and that was nailed
at the same way that he ordered services
so can she show Brian that letter now I
can't regenerate the letter we always
everything in writing the meetings over
and we rendezvous with Brian she said
that you have a written agreement do you
no no and she did not mention that
written agreement when she spoke to the
Better Business Bureau
she couldn't follow through on the copy
of the letter the letter is gone when we
come back it's amazing that we find
myself super busy today so Nash talks to
weed men you know you're committing a
scams to sin it's a crime and we do too
Oh Mary good hi hi Bill Shane Canada's
biggest lawncare company has a yard full
of troubles with hundreds of complaints
from across the country the Ontario
Ministry of Consumer Services launches
an investigation that finds grounds to
charge Weed Man with several offenses so
they send a compliance order demanding
weed man stop what is doing to customers
time to talk to the company head office
sends bill Shane to meet with eyesight
bill Shane he's chief operating officer
of the franchise's across the country
with the most complaints sales reps have
told us they're taught kind of tricks on
the phone to get people to agree to
services when they don't want them and
getting them to say yes to almost
anything is enough to constitute a sale
what kind of tactics are those we are
servicing over 300,000 customers
nationwide we are the largest lawn care
company in Canada we've been in business
over 40 years we care for each and every
single one of our customers and all the
things we do would be designed with them
in mind
so what about the compliance order
issued by the ministry what does the
order say that you had to do making sure
that the consumer rights are displayed
clearly on our confirmation
letter the literature to the customer
and a second point particularly that
continuous service is well defined on on
the confirmation letter to customers
also have you issued that orders to the
franchise that you are in charge of for
the franchises that report to me that
I'm in charge of they are aware of the
order and they are in compliance with
the order if that's the case what will
happen now when senesce chatline he
calls weed man his family says they
never ordered their service today
so will the company now stop demanding
payment actually went to the credit
agency so your colors not even here
above at the office anymore so there's
nothing that I can do for you
I'm your step sir is not going to do
move I think it's definitely best in
your interest to pay it so you can't
give me a signature at all well I'm
gonna have as I said your account is not
here anymore physically it's not here
okay because to not have a signature and
not be able to show proof of a
customer's of transaction is illegal
Specter
here's concern why wasn't it dealt with
earlier well I sent letters but no one
ever got back to me I even called the
cops someone came to my property
trespassing broke my fence left my gate
open didn't tell me about fertilizers my
dog got sick the next day I don't have
anything on file in terms out we broke
her gate and your dog that's great this
isn't about me this is about my father
like I care about my father and its
credit rating and you're not helping and
like everyone's upset at home for
nothing absolutely nothing because you
know you're committing a scam this is a
sin it's a crime and I don't know how
you I don't know how you do it I really
don't anyways um I guess this phone call
is over have a great day okay you as
well
we place anisha's conversation with weed
men - chief operating officer bill
Schoen I think it's definitely been in
your interest to spoil it what's your
reaction to what you just heard the
customer was very upset the person on
the phone on our end was was polite and
courteous to the customer and trying to
provide I think the best information
that she could to him they were never a
client someone showed up and started
treating his lawn and he had literally
went outside and said stop I'm sorry
that these folks have had a bad
experience with the company but
certainly if I look into it I can
respond intelligently to see what
happened that phone call was taped well
after the compliance order was issued
and well after you agreed to follow the
compliance order does that sound like
your company is complying with what what
they're asking for compliance order
relates to continuous service and how we
implement continuous service so we are
in fact in in compliance with that order
even though this there's an issue with
the collection agency and this family
feels they're being harassed for a
service they did not want never agreed
to and this is still going on that's
still in compliance as I said I'd have
to go back and look at the specific
details of this particular case so I
could respond intelligently but when we
show so Nash's phone call to call
Mackenzie and Ontario's consumer
services the information that's on that
tape of yours is clearly appears to be a
violation of the consumer protection act
how do you feel about that when you see
that given the extent you've gone to
this point to warn these people not to
do this it's a concern definitely is a
concern what a business does not appear
to be complying with the legislation we
did show much of that conversation to
the ministry consumer services in
Ontario and their view is that you're
not following the compliance order I
would look into the details of this
particular case look at exactly what
happened you know from our perspective
and see see how we resolve it and what
about Pamela Waters sin in Pickering and
brine boot in Ottawa I'll certainly need
to investigate them and make a decision
on on what we're going to do to resolve
it with the customer
a couple of weeks later pamela receives
this from Shan dear mrs. Waterson I'd
like to personally apologize on behalf
of our company for the misunderstandings
this spring Senesh gets this good news
we will contact the collection agency
today and cancel collection efforts on
your account
sincerely bill shape Bryan gets his
account written off too but incredibly
his dealings with Weed Man aren't over a
few weeks later he gets this her account
was identified as one that was not
resolved to your complete satisfaction
an offer for free aeration this spring
these people don't understand the word
no.1 veteran of a turf battle he never
wanted a fight with a company he never
wanted to hire